Okta 569571 Reference Architecture soft launch (#3930)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/reference/architecture-center/directory-coexistence/lab-tutorial-2-ldap-server/index.md

---
title: Migrate users from an on-premises LDAP directory to Universal Directory
---

# Directory Coexistence Tutorial 2: Migrate users from an on-premises LDAP directory to Universal Directory

> Suppose you already handle authentication via an on-premises LDAP directory but want to replace it with Okta. You can install an on-premises Okta LDAP Agent to mirror those users to Universal Directory and then redirect your applications to Okta for authentication. In this scenario, Universal Directory serves as a single source of truth for user data and lets administrators centrally manage policies and profiles. You can assign them to any application registered with your Okta Organization. Access to those assigned applications can be via any protocol, such as LDAP Interface, OpenID Connect, SAML, and so on.

Author: Replaced all non-link or heading uses of OpenID Connect to OIDC

However, authentication of the LDAP user is delegated to the LDAP server through the Okta LDAP Interface so that users can authenticate with Okta using their LDAP directory server credentials. This directory coexistence can stay in place until you migrate all your user information to Universal Directory and no longer require the LDAP directory.

In this tutorial, you will create a sample web application that authenticates directly with an on-premise OpenLDAP Directory Server. Then you will migrate all the users in that directory to Universal Directory with the Okta LDAP Agent and update the application to authenticate its users with Universal Directory through the Okta LDAP interface. Specifically, you will:

1. [Set up the start scenario](#set-up-the-start-scenario).

>    Spin up a simple OIDC-based web application in a docker container that authenticates its user against an OpenLDAP Directory server you have started in a second docker container. At this point, Okta is not involved in the authentication flow. You use a username and password to authenticate directly with the LDAP directory server.

Author: Have find-replaced all is nots with isn'ts.

At the end of step 4, when a user attempts to sign in to the application, their authorization request is redirected to Okta and then delegated to the LDAP directory to match the user and authenticate them. At the end of step 5, their authorization request is handled entirely by Okta.

<div class="full">

  ![An architecture diagram showing the authorization flow from user to Okta to an OpenLDAP Directory server and back again.](/img/architecture/directory-coexistence/ldap-to-okta-flow-diagram.png)

  <!--
    Source image: fill-this-in ldap-to-okta-flow-diagram
  -->
</div>

> Note: This tutorial uses three [Docker](https://www.docker.com) containers that run a sample web application, an OpenLDAP directory server, and an on-premises Okta LDAP Agent. The tutorial also configures a cloud-based Okta LDAP Interface. For information on integrating your LDAP instance with Okta, see [Manage your LDAP integration](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=oie&id=ext_LDAP_Provisioning)

## Set up the start scenario

> Create the initial environment for the tutorial where an application authenticates directly with an OpenLDAP directory server running on-premise in a Docker container.

Author: replaced all on-premises

   okta-reference-coexistence-ldap-example-webapp-1  | 2022-09-01 20:51:24.867  INFO 1 --- [           main] com.okta.example.ra.Application          : Started Application in 2.033 seconds (JVM running for 2.371)
   ```

1. Open a private/incognito browser window and navigate to `http://localhost:8080` to display the LDAP directory sign-in dialog.

   <div class="half wireframe-border">

   ![A sign-in form with fields for username and password and a next button](/img/wireframes/sign-in-form-username-password.png)

   <!--
   Source image: https://www.figma.com/file/YH5Zhzp66kGCglrXQUag2E/%F0%9F%93%8A-Updated-Diagrams-for-Dev-Docs?node-id=3398%3A36678&t=wzNwSZkdctajVush-1 sign-in-form-username-password
   -->

   </div>

   The OpenLDAP directory contains three users, as defined in the `ldifs\users.ldif` file. At the prompt, sign in with username **user01** and password **password1**. The following dialog appears after successful authentication:

   <div class="full border">

>    ![Sign-in response with welcome home successful authentication response](/img/architecture/directory-coexistence/ldap-to-okta-signin-response.png)

Author: changed to half width

   </div>

> ## Connect Okta LDAP Agent and Import Users

Author: fixed this and other sentence case headings

With the basic environment set up, you need to connect the OpenLDAP directory server to your Okta org with an instance of Okta LDAP Agent. You'll then import the LDAP users into Universal Directory.

> > Note: Okta LDAP Agent is usually installed on-premises in the same network as the LDAP server it is connecting to Okta. For this lab, you will use an Okta LDAP Agent instance in a docker container.

Author: replaced all it's
upper cased all Docker containers

   ```bash
   okta login
   ```

   If you are already logged into Okta, a prompt similar to the following is returned. The current sign-in configuration is based on the Okta Org URL and API token you provided at your previous okta login command. If you want to use the existing configuration, answer N and skip steps a and b. Otherwise, answer Y and continue to steps a and b.

   ```txt
   An existing Okta Organization (https://dev-133337.okta.com) was found in C:\mydirectory\.okta\okta.yaml
   Overwrite configuration file? [Y/n]
   ```

   a. Enter your `${OKTA_DOMAIN}`. If you do not know your `${OKTA_DOMAIN}`, see [Values and Variables](/docs/reference/architecture-center/directory-coexistence/lab-prerequisites/#values-and-variables).

   b. Follow the instructions in [Create an API token](/docs/guides/create-an-api-token) to create a token. Once you have the token, enter it at the Okta API token prompt.

### Set up the Okta LDAP Agent

Connect the LDAP directory server to Okta with an Okta LDAP Agent. The Okta LDAP Agent provides delegated authentication to the on-premise LDAP server so your users can authenticate to Okta using their local LDAP credentials.

> > Note: You set up Just-In-Time (JIT) provisioning in the Okta LDAP agent at this point if you want to use a [JIT migration strategy](/docs/reference/architecture-center/directory-coexistence/overview/#just-in-time-migration). Remember that this allows LDAP server and Universal Directory profiles to coexist. It also provides a seamless experience because users do not have to create a new username or password in Universal Directory. Once your users are mirrored in Okta, you can stop delegating authentication to the LDAP server and have Okta be solely responsible for authentication, as described in [Complete the migration of users from LDAP to Universal Directory](.#complete-the-migration-of-users-from-ldap-to-universal-directory).

Author: Replaced all instances of do not with don't

   ```bash
   docker compose build
   ```

1. Edit the `okta-reference-coexistence-ldap-example/.env` file, which stores Okta-related configurations. Edit the **OKTA_URL** line so it points to your free Okta account:

   ```js
   OKTA_URL="https://${OKTA_DOMAIN}"
   ```

   For example, `OKTA_URL="https://dev-133337.okta.com"`

1. In the console, start the application:

   ```bash
   docker compose up
   ```

1. The first time the **ldap-agent** container starts, an authentication link is provided in the console output.

   ```txt
   ldap-agent      Please visit the URL: https://dev-133337.okta.com/oauth2/auth?code=mzsggy7t before Fri Feb 03 20:00:00 UTC 2023 to authenticate and continue agent reistration.
   ```

   > **Tip:** If you do not see a link for the `ldap-agent` in the console output, or you see `ldap-agent` exited with code 3, first type <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>C</kbd> in the console to stop the application. Next, in the `okta-reference-coexistence-ldap-example/.env` file, verify that you have straight quotes and that your Okta account name is spelled correctly. Correct any errors and save the file. Finally, in the console, run `docker compose up`.

> 1. Open a browser and navigate to the URL provided in the console to link the Okta LDAP Agent with your free Okta account. For example, for the sample console output shown in the previous step you would navigate to `https://dev-133337.okta.com/oauth2/auth?code=mzsggy7t`.

Author: done

>    > Caution: You must complete this step within 10 minutes of executing docker compose up.

Author: done

   A **token is expired** message may be output to the console or displayed when attempting to go to the URL in the browser.

   <div class="half">

   ![message in browser showing token expired message](/img/architecture/directory-coexistence/ldap-to-okta-agent-token-expired-dialog.png)

   </div>

   If it appears, perform the following steps:

   1. Type <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>C</kbd> in the console to stop the container.
   2. Type `docker compose down` to stop and delete the container.
   3. Open Docker Desktop and delete the `okta-reference-coexistence-ldap-example` container, if present.
   4. Go to your Okta Admin Console, and delete any LDAP agents, interfaces, and users that you've imported or added in this exercise.
   5. Type `docker compose up` to start the container.

1. If requested, sign in to your Okta account.
1. Click or tap **Allow Access** to allow the Okta LDAP Agent access to the Okta API.

   <div class="three-quarter">

   ![dialog, okta ldap agent requesting permission to access okta api](/img/architecture/directory-coexistence/ldap-to-okta-allow-access-to-okta-api.png)

   </div>

> 1. Click or tap **Continue** to complete the connection. A dialog will appear confirming the connection.

Author: done

   <div class="full">

>    ![dialog, okta ldap agent successful access to okta api](/img/architecture/directory-coexistence/ldap-to-okta-successful-access-to-okta.png)

Author: changed to three-quarter width

   </div>

### Configure the LDAP Agent

The Okta LDAP Agent is now connected to the LDAP server and Okta. However, it still needs to be configured using the Admin Console. This configuration provides the mappings between users and groups in the Universal Directory and the users and groups in your LDAP directory.

First, make sure the LDAP Agent is operational:

1. Open the Admin Console for your Okta org.

   `https://${OKTA_DOMAIN_NAME}-admin.okta.com`

   For example, if `${OKTA_DOMAIN_NAME}` is `dev-133337`, you access your Admin Console at `https://dev-133337-admin.okta.com`.

1. Choose **Dashboard > Dashboard** to see the current status of your org.
1. Locate the Status section, and click **Agents** to see the agents associated with your free Okta account:

   <div class="full">

   ![okta dashboard showing agents link](/img/architecture/directory-coexistence/ldap-to-okta-dashboard-agents-link.png)

   </div>

>    The ldap-agent's **Status** should be **green** and **Operational** as shown below:

Author: done

   <div class="full border">

   ![okta dashboard showing ldap agent status green and operational](/img/architecture/directory-coexistence/ldap-to-okta-agent-green-and-operational.png)

   </div>

> Now you can configure the details of the LDAP integration. Okta provides defaults, but if you are using a different LDAP configuration, you may need to modify the configuration. For information on each setting, Ssee [Configure LDAP integration settings](https://help.okta.com/en-us/Content/Topics/Directory/ldap-configure-integration-settings.htm).

Author: Ddone :-)

> 1. Choose **Directory > Directory** Integrations to see the current directory integrations.

Author: done

1. Click **LDAP** to configure the user mappings.

   <div class="full border">

   ![okta dashboard showing directory integrations](/img/architecture/directory-coexistence/ldap-to-okta-directory-integrations.png)

   </div>

1. Set **LDAP Version** to **OpenLDAP**.

   > **Note:** For additional information on which LDAP directories can be integrated with Okta, see [Supported LDAP directories](https://help.okta.com/en-us/Content/Topics/Directory/ldap-agent-supported-directories.htm).

1. Set **User Search Base** to **ou=users,dc=example,dc=org**.
1. Update the following **Group** values:

   | Property               | Value            | Description             |
   | ---------------------- | ---------------- | ----------------------- |

>    | Group Search Base      | `ou=groups,dc=example,dc=org` | The Distinguished Name (DN) of the container for group searches (that is, root of the group subtree) that holds all groups that will be imported into your Okta org.The full search path for your groups. |

Author: done

   ![Import from LDAP choose incremental report](/img/architecture/directory-coexistence/ldap-to-okta-import-from-ldap-import-button.png)

   </div>

1. Click **OK** on the dialog that shows the statistics summary.

   <div class="half border">

   ![statistics summary showing three users and one group imported](/img/architecture/directory-coexistence/ldap-to-okta-import-statistics.png)

   </div>

1. In the report, you can see how each LDAP directory user is mapped to a user in Universal Directory.

   Select all available users and click **Confirm Assignments**.

   <div class="full border">

   ![okta user assignments](/img/architecture/directory-coexistence/ldap-to-okta-confirm-assignments.png)

   </div>

1. Select **Auto-activate users after confirmation** in the **Confirm Imported User Assignments** dialog.
1. Click **Confirm**. All of the users and groups have now been imported from the LDAP directory to Universal Directory.
1. Choose **Directory > People** to view the imported users.

   <div class="three-quarter border">

   ![okta user assignments](/img/architecture/directory-coexistence/ldap-to-okta-directory-3-users-imported-from-ldap.png)

   </div>

> At this point, the selected LDAP users and groups have been imported and you can assign them to any application that you have registered with your Okta org. Access to those assigned applications can be via any protocol, such as LDAP Interface, OpenID Connect, SAML, etc.

Author: done

However, authentication of the LDAP user is delegated to the LDAP server through the Okta LDAP Agent. Delegated authentication is used when that user signs into an assigned application in your Okta org.

For this tutorial, there is only one on-premise LDAP directory server, but if you had LDAP directories running on other servers, you could install an Okta LDAP Agent for each LDAP server and then import those LDAP users into Okta, as well.

> To update an applications to authenticate against Okta Universal Directory instead of the LDAP directory, you can either

Author: done

* [Update your application to point to an Okta LDAP Interface](#update-the-application-to-point-to-the-okta-ldap-interface).
* [Update your application to use OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect (OIDC)](#update-the-application-to-use-oauth-20-and-openid-connect).

> This tutorial will go through the steps for each, starting with the Okta LDAP Interface. However, we recommend updating your application to use OpenID Connect instead of the Okta LDAP Interface because OpenID Connect is more secure.

Author: done

## Update the application to point to the Okta LDAP Interface

The [Okta LDAP Interface](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?topic=oie&id=ext_LDAP_Using_the_LDAP_Interface) exposes Okta's users and groups to applications using the LDAP protocol. In this section, you connect the `okta-reference-coexistence-ldap-example` application to Universal Directory through the Okta LDAP Interface. Universal Directory delegates authentication back to the on-premise LDAP directory server through the LDAP Agent.

> > Note: For this example, the application will need to change the LDAP configuration.

Author: done

### Enable the Okta LDAP Interface

1. In your terminal window, stop the applications running in the `okta-reference-coexistence-ldap-example` directory with <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>C</kbd>.
1. Check out the `okta-ldap` branch:

   ```bash
   git checkout okta-ldap
   ```

1. Open the Admin Console for your org.
1. Choose **Directory > Directory Integrations** to see the current directory integrations.

> 1. Choose **Add Directory > Add LDAP** Interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Choose **Add Directory** > **Add LDAP** Interface.
```

1. Click **Edit** in the **LDAP Interface screen** to edit this directory's configuration.
1. Locate the **Groups section** and set **Configuration** to **Okta groups and app groups**.

>    > **Note**: See the [LDAP Groups settings](https://help.okta.com/en-us/Content/Topics/Directory/ldap-interface-expose-groups.htm) for additional information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   > **Note**: See the [LDAP Groups settings](https://help.okta.com/en-us/Content/Topics/Directory/ldap-interface-expose-groups.htm).
```

1. Click **Save**.

> 1. Choose **Directory > Directory Integrations > LDAP**. Make a note of the text after `/instance/` at the end of the browser URL. The text is your `${OKTA_LDAP_ID}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Choose **Directory** > **Directory Integrations > LDAP**. Make a note of the text after `/instance/` at the end of the browser URL. The text is your `${OKTA_LDAP_ID}`.
```

   <div class="full border">

   ![okta user assignments](/img/architecture/directory-coexistence/ldap-to-okta-ldap-id-in-browser-url.png)

   </div>

1. Update the `okta-reference-coexistence-ldap-example/.env` file with the following values, and then save the file.

You can also review [additional changes in the application](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-reference-coexistence-ldap-example/commit/577f7b8df0e0c1b52272bdd38269784c814c67cf) that allow it to access the Okta LDAP Interface for authentication.

| Key               | Value (example)       | Description             |
| ---------------------- | ---------------- | ----------------------- |

> | `OKTA_LDAP_HOST`      | `dev-133337.ldap.okta.com` | LDAP Host name<br><br>Replace `dev-133337` with ${OKTA_DOMAIN_NAME}. See [Values and Variables](/docs/reference/architecture-center/directory-coexistence/lab-prerequisites/#values-and-variables). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `OKTA_LDAP_HOST`      | `dev-133337.ldap.okta.com` | LDAP Host name<br><br>Replace `dev-133337` with ${OKTA_DOMAIN_NAME}. See [Values and variables](/docs/reference/architecture-center/directory-coexistence/lab-prerequisites/#values-and-variables). |
```

| `OKTA_LDAP_BASE`     | `dc=dev-133337, dc=okta, dc=com`     | Base Distinguished Name<br><br>Replace `dev-133337` with ${OKTA_DOMAIN_NAME}. |
| `OKTA_LDAP_ID`    | `<yourOktaLdapId>` | The ID of the directory integration, found in the URL of integration named LDAP.<br><br>The URL is similar to `/admin/app/ldap_sun_one/instance/{ID}`.<br><br>The ID is similar to `0oa6qvmxznVl4KFXe5d7`. |

> | `OKTA_LDAP_USERNAME`       | `ldap-user`      | A static user that has access to read user group information; see the following section on how to create a user with restricted access. |

Author: done

| `OKTA_LDAP_PASSWORD` | `<change-me>` | Password for the above user.<br>Enter an actual value for the password and make note of it. |

### Create a user to access the Okta LDAP Interface

> In this section, you will create a new user with a new admin role in Universal Directory. This user will connect the application to the Okta LDAP interface.

Reviewer: Is it LDAP Interface or LDAP interface? I've Interface capitalized until now
```suggestion
In this section, you create a new user with a new admin role in Universal Directory. This user connects the application to the Okta LDAP Interface.
```

1. Open the Admin Console for your org.

> 1. Choose **Directory > People > Add Person**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Choose **Directory** > **People** > **Add Person**.
```

1. Enter the following values, and then press **Save**.

   | Field name               | Value        |
   | ---------------------- | ---------------- |
   | First name      | `LDAP` |
   | Last name      | `User` |
   | Username      | `ldap-user@example.com` |
   | Primary email      | `ldap-user@example.com` |
   | I will set password      | Click **I will set password** and then enter the password that you set for the `OKTA_LDAP_PASSWORD` variable in the `.env` file. |

>    | User must change password on first login | `false`<br><br>Click **User must change password on first login** to uncheck the field. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | User must change password on first login | `false`<br><br>Click **User must change password on first login** to clear the field. |
```

1. Create an admin role:

>    1. Choose **Security > Administrators > Resources > Create new resource set**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Choose **Security** > **Administrators** > **Resources** > **Create new resource set**.
```

>    1. Choose **Security > Administrators > Resources > Create new resource set**.

Author: Will come back to this after the soft launch

>    2. Enter the **Resource set name** as **Users & Groups**. This will automatically set the **Resource set description** to the same value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   2. Enter the **Resource set name** as **Users & Groups**. This automatically sets the **Resource set description** to the same value.
```

   3. Select **Users** for the **Resource type**.
   4. Select **Constrain to all Users**.
   5. Click **Add another resource type**.
   6. Select **Groups** as the second **Resource type**.
   7. Select **Constrain to all Groups**.

      <div class="three-quarter border">

      ![create new resource set settings](/img/architecture/directory-coexistence/ldap-to-okta-create-resource-sets-for-admin-user.png)

      </div>

   8. Click **Save resource set**.

>    9. Select **Roles > Create new role**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   9. Select **Roles** > **Create new role**.
```

   10. Set **Role name** to **groups-user-reader**.
   11. Set **Role description** to **Groups Users Reader**.
   12. Scroll down and, in the **User permissions** section, select **View users and their details**.
   13. Scroll down and, in the **Group permissions** section, select **View groups and their details**.
   14. Click **Save role**.

1. Assign the admin role to your new user:

>    1. Select **Admins > Add administrator**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Select **Admins > Add administrator**.
```
```suggestion
   1. Select **Admins** > **Add administrator**.
```

>    1. Select **Admins > Add administrator**.

Author: Will come back to this after the soft launch

>    2. Locate the **Administrator assignment by admin** screen and set **Admin** to **LDAP User (ldap-user@example.com)**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   2. Locate the **Administrator assignment by admin** page and set **Admin** to **LDAP User (ldap-user@example.com)**.
```

>    3. Select **groups-user-reader** for the **Role** field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   3. Select **groups-user-reader** as the **Role**.
```

>    4. Select **Users and Groups** for the **Resource set** field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   4. Select **Users and Groups** as the **Resource set**.
```

   5. Click **Save Changes**.

      <div class="full border">

>       ![assign admin role settings](/img/architecture/directory-coexistence/ldap-to-okta-assign-admin-role-to-ldap-user.png)

Author: Have deleted and reworded instructions

      </div>

   6. Refresh the **Administrator** page to see your new administrator, **LDAP User**.

> You can test the user's access using the following `ldapsearch` command in the console. Remember to replace `${OKTA_DOMAIN_NAME}` with your Okta Org name and `${OKTA_LDAP_PASSWORD}` with the password that you set for the `OKTA_LDAP_PASSWORD` variable in the `okta-reference-coexistence-ldap-example/.env` file first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can test the user's access using the following `ldapsearch` command in the terminal. Remember to first replace `${OKTA_DOMAIN_NAME}` with your Okta org name and `${OKTA_LDAP_PASSWORD}` with the password that you set for the `OKTA_LDAP_PASSWORD` variable in the `okta-reference-coexistence-ldap-example/.env` file.
```

```bash
docker run bitnami/openldap:2 ldapsearch -x -b "ou=groups,dc=dev-133337,dc=okta,dc=com" -H ldaps://${OKTA_DOMAIN_NAME}.ldap.okta.com:636 -D uid=ldap-user,dc=dev-133337,dc=okta,dc=com -w '${OKTA_LDAP_PASSWORD}'
```

> The result will be a list of groups with uniqueMember attributes, including your admin user and the three users you imported from the LDAP server into Okta. A portion of the listing will be similar to the following:

Author: done

```txt
uniqueMember: uid=ldap-user@example.com,ou=users,dc=dev-133337,dc=okta,dc=com
uniqueMember: uid=user01@example.com,ou=users,dc=dev-133337,dc=okta,dc=com
uniqueMember: uid=user02@example.com,ou=users,dc=dev-133337,dc=okta,dc=com
uniqueMember: uid=user03@example.com,ou=users,dc=dev-133337,dc=okta,dc=com
```

### Rebuild the application to incorporate your changes

1. Rebuild the application:

   ```bash
   docker compose build
   ```

2. Start the application:

   ```bash
   docker compose up
   ```

3. Open a private/incognito window and navigate to the same URL as before: `http://localhost:8080`.

4. Sign in with the imported user's email address and password: `user01@example.com` and `password1`.

   <div class="half border">

>    ![please sign in dialog with filled in username and password](/img/architecture/directory-coexistence/ldap-to-okta-signin-dialog-with-okta-ldap.png)

Author: deleted

   </div>

>    A successful sign-in returns the following dialog:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   A successful sign-in flow returns the following dialog:
```

   <div class="full border">

> 

Author: Made it half width

   ![Successful sign-in dialog saying Welcome home user01](/img/architecture/directory-coexistence/ldap-to-okta-signin-to-ldap-directory.png)

   </div>

### Troubleshooting

If you see an error message similar to the following when you sign in:

<div class="half border">

![Sign-in nested exception root exception error](/img/architecture/directory-coexistence/ldap-to-okta-error-didnt-update-okta-domain.png)

</div>

> perform the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Perform the following steps:
```

> 1. Press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>C</kbd> in the console to stop the containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Enter <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>C</kbd> in the terminal to stop the containers.
```

Author: Goign to leave as console for now. Lots of instances of console elsewhere.

2. Enter `docker compose down` to stop and delete the containers.

> 3. Edit the `okta-reference-coexistence-ldap-example/.env` file and replace any incorrect Okta Org names, such as `dev-133337`, with your Okta Org name. Verify the values for `OKTA_LDAP_HOST`, `OKTA_LDAP_BASE`, `OKTA_LDAP_ID`, `OKTA_LDAP_USERNAME`, and `OKTA_LDAP_PASSWORD`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Edit the `okta-reference-coexistence-ldap-example/.env` file and replace any incorrect Okta org names, such as `dev-133337`, with your Okta org name. Verify the values for `OKTA_LDAP_HOST`, `OKTA_LDAP_BASE`, `OKTA_LDAP_ID`, `OKTA_LDAP_USERNAME`, and `OKTA_LDAP_PASSWORD`.
```

4. Save the `okta-reference-coexistence-ldap-example/.env` file.

> 5. In the console, start the application with `docker compose up`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. In the terminal, start the application with `docker compose up`.
```

> 6. Repeat steps 3 and 4 from the previous section to sign-in to the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Repeat steps 3 and 4 from the previous section to sign in to the application.
```

## Update the application to use OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect

You can replace the Okta LDAP Interface by updating the application to use OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect.

1. In the `okta-reference-coexistence-ldap-example` directory, stop the current running containers with <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>C</kbd>.

1. Remove the containers:

   ```bash
   docker compose down
   ```

> 1. Check out the main branch of `okta-reference-coexistence-ldap-example`. This updates the code in the project to replace the LDAP authentication with OpenID Connect (OIDC):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check out the main branch of `okta-reference-coexistence-ldap-example`. This updates the code in the project to replace the LDAP authentication with OIDC:
```

   ```bash
   git checkout main
   ```

1. Create an Okta OpenID Connect Application and register the application with Okta:

   ```bash
   okta start
   ```

>    The `okta start` CLI command creates and registers an OAuth 2.0/OpenID Connect client with Okta. Okta considers this an OpenID Connect application. When this OpenID Connect application is registered, the `ISSUER`, `CLIENT_ID` and `CLIENT_SECRET` variables in the `okta-reference-coexistence-ldap-example/.env` file are updated for authentication with Okta, similar to:

Author: fixed

   ```js
   ISSUER=https://dev-133337.okta.com/oauth2/default
   CLIENT_ID=0oa6iartjn5iuoKzr5d7
   CLIENT_SECRET=fF4BMQ0OhGp3D63s71BBTZoztIWqICdrCXBdkCtn
   ```

>    The sample web application in the Docker container uses the client ID and client secret to communicate with the Okta OpenID Connect application to use Okta as the identity provider. See [Values and Variables](/docs/reference/architecture-center/directory-coexistence/lab-prerequisites/#values-and-variables).

Author: Capitalised all other instances of Identity Provider too.

1. Rebuild the application:

   ```bash
   docker compose build
   ```

1. Start the application:

   ```bash
   docker compose up
   ```

> 1. Open a private/incognito window and navigate to the same URL as before, `http://localhost:8080`. This time you are redirected to Okta to sign-in. Sign in with the user's email address and password: `user01@example.com` and `password1`. Okta connects back to the LDAP server for authentication to sign into the `okta-reference-coexistence-ldap-example` application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open a private/incognito window and navigate to the same URL as before, `http://localhost:8080`. This time you are redirected to Okta to sign in. Sign in with the user's email address and password: `user01@example.com` and `password1`. Okta connects back to the LDAP server for authentication to sign in to the `okta-reference-coexistence-ldap-example` application.
```

   <div class="half border">

>    ![Sign-in form to sign in to Okta LDAP example, with username and password field](/img/architecture/directory-coexistence/ldap-to-okta-signin-dialog-with-ldap-openid.png)

Author: deleted

   </div>

>    A successful sign in displays the following dialog:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   A successful sign in flow displays the following dialog:
```

   <div class="three-quarter border">

>    ![Successful sign-in response](/img/architecture/directory-coexistence/ldap-to-okta-signin-response.png)

Author: shrunk to half width.

   </div>

### Stop the example

> After you have completed the example, you can stop the application and remove the running Docker containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you complete the example, stop the application and remove the running Docker containers.
```

1. In the `okta-reference-coexistence-ldap-example` directory, stop the current running containers with <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>C</kbd>.

2. Remove the containers:

   ```bash
   docker compose down
   ```

> **Note**: The initial version of this application used simple usernames such as `user01`. Okta defaults to using email addresses for usernames, for example `user01@example.com`. You can configure Okta to use simple usernames if needed. See [How can I remove the format restriction for Okta Username from using an email address format](https://support.okta.com/help/s/article/How-can-I-remove-the-format-restriction-for-Okta-Username-from-using-an-email-address-format?language=en_US).

## Migrate users from LDAP to Okta

The LDAP users are already stored in Okta, but the passwords are managed by the LDAP server. To learn how to migrate users completely from LDAP to Okta, see [Migrating users from LDAP to Okta Universal Directory](https://support.okta.com/help/s/question/0D50Z00008Vr0MLSAZ/migrating-users-from-ldap-to-okta-universal-directory?language=en_US).

> > **Note**: The instructions in the article linked above require resetting the users' passwords. If you do not want to reset all user passwords, you can use an Okta Password Import Hook. See [Account for hash types Okta does not support](/docs/reference/architecture-center/directory-coexistence/lab-tutorial-3-generic-database/#account-for-hash-types-okta-does-not-support).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: The instructions in the article linked above require resetting the users' passwords. If you don't want to reset all user passwords, you can use an Okta password import hook. See [Account for hash types Okta does not support](/docs/reference/architecture-center/directory-coexistence/lab-tutorial-3-generic-database/#account-for-hash-types-okta-does-not-support).
```
